Fix filter expressions (#1219)
sherpa/sherpa: docs/data/index.rst

Sherpa supports filtering data sets; that is, temporarily removing
parts of the data (perhaps because there are problems, or to help
restrict parameter values). There are routines to filter the data
and to find out what bins have been selected.

The :py:meth:`~sherpa.data.Data.ignore` and
:py:meth:`~sherpa.data.Data.notice` methods are used to
define the ranges to exclude or include.
The :py:attr:`~sherpa.data.Data.mask` attribute indicates
whether a filter has been applied: if it returns ``True`` then
no filter is set, ``False`` when all data has been filtered out,
otherwise it is a bool array
where ``False`` values indicate those elements that are to be
ignored. For example, the following
hides those values where the independent axis values are between
21.2 and 22.8::

    >>> d1.ignore(21.2, 22.8)
    >>> d1.x[np.invert(d1.mask)]
    array([21.5, 22. , 22.5])

.. note::
   The meaning of the range selected by the `notice` and `ignore` calls
   depends on the data class: :py:class:`sherpa.data.Data1DInt` and
   :py:class:`sherpa.astro.data.DataPHA` classes can treat the

>    upper limit differently (it in inclusive or exclusive)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   upper limit differently (it can be inclusive or exclusive)
```

   and 2D datasets such as :py:class:`sherpa.data.Data2D` can
   use filters that use both axes.

The :py:meth:`~sherpa.data.Data1D.get_filter` method will report a
string representation of the existing filter, so here showing that
the bins between 21 and 23 have been ignored::

    >>> print(d1.get_fiter())

>     20.0000:21.0000,23.0000:39.5000

Author: Well, the last bin is 39.5 in this example.

>     20.0000:21.0000,23.0000:39.5000

Reviewer 2: Well, I got confused. Otherwise, I would not have brought it up...

>     20.0000:21.0000,23.0000:39.5000

Author: I've re-worked this example to use bins of 09.25/0.75 rather than 0.0/0.5 which has of course meant lots of changes to plots and screen outputs.

>     20.0000:21.0000,23.0000:39.5000

Reviewer 2: I'm sorry to cause extra work, but I think it will avoid misconceptions so it's hopefully worth it.

>     20.0000:21.0000,23.0000:39.5000

Author: I believe the docs look better now, but needs a check.

.. note::
   The filter does not record the requested changes - that is here

>    the 21.2 to 21.8 arguments to :py:meth:`~sherpa.data.Data.ignore` -

Reviewer: Do you mean 22.8 from line 146 rather than 21.8?

```suggestion
   the 21.2 to 23.8 arguments to :py:meth:`~sherpa.data.Data.ignore` -
```

Author: It should be 22.8, as you say, and not 21.8 or 23.8 :-)

Author: I'll update this later as we'll need a rebase for #1216

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/sherpa/sherpa/pull/1219/commits/c84975ba4ffd11b065f01f8bbe63de2c0285f3b0

Author: Which is now https://github.com/sherpa/sherpa/pull/1219/commits/c70b0f02c23a77de7241e704e86769c60c63a9f0
